= growl-atom

A script to monitor Atom feeds and create Growl notitifcations for new entries

== Prerequisites


* Mac OS X, obviously Growl is a Mac app!
* Growl See: http://growl.info
* The growlnoftify application installed See: http://growl.info/extras.php#growlnotify
* Ruby 1.8+, installed by default on Leopard
 
== Installation

=== Install the growl-atom gem

Run the following if you haven't already:
	gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

Install the gem:
	sudo gem install matth-growl-atom

=== Install a local config and LaunchAgent

This will install a config and LaunchAgent for the current user. The config file
lists all Atom feeds to monitor and the OS X LaunchAgent will run the script at timed
intervals.

	growl-atom install
	
=== Add feeds to your config file

The install command will generate an example config file in ~/.growl-atom/config You can add
feeds and config options to this file. This is a YAML file.

	---
	
	global:
	 growl_host : localhost
	 
	feeds:
	 - name: Gmail
	   url: https://mail.google.com/mail/feed/atom/
	   auth_user: your_gmail_username
	   auth_pass: your_gmail_password
	   image: ~/.growl-atom/icons/gmail.png
	   title: author/email
	   message: title
	   sticky: false

=== Test the config 
	
Once you've added new feeds to the config you can test it by running:

	growl-atom check

This is the same command that will be run periodically by the LaunchAgent. Any errors should 
show up here, if you are experiencing errors when the LaunchAgent is running then check log messages 
in /Applications/Utilities/Console

== Using growl-atom with HTTP authentication

If you feed requires http athentication you can provide the username and password in the config file

	feeds:
	 - name: Feed requiring authentication
	   url: https://protectedhost.com/feed/atom/
	   auth_user: your_username
	   auth_pass: your_password

== Using growl-atom with client certs 

You can use growl-atom to access feeds requiring a client SSL certificate. You need to provide a
.pem file with the key and cert included. If you have exported your cert from your browser it may 
be in a .p12 format, you can convert it to a .pem with the following command:

	openssl pkcs12 -in /path/to/your/cert.p12 -nodes -out ~/.growl-atom/certs/cert.pem
	
You can provide the path to the pem file in the growl-atom config:

	feeds:
	 - name: Feed needing Cert 
	   url: https://protectedhost.com/feed/atom/
	   cert: ~/.growl-atom/certs/cert.pem

== Clearing the caches

growl-atom works by caching the Atom entry ID's of all messages it has alrady notified you of. It
can sometimes be usefule to clear these caches, especially when debugging.

	growl-atom clear-caches

== Uninstalling

Uninstalling is simple enough, first uninstall the config, caches and LaunchAgent from the local
user's profile

	growl-atom uninstall

Then uninstall the gem

	sudo gem uninstall matth-growl-atom -a
	
== Known Issues and Future Improvements

* No support for web proxies (how to do this intelligently i.e. Not hardcoding it in the config)

== License:

(GPLv3)

Copyright (C) 2009 Matt Haynes

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
